[birds chirping]
Dennis Flake: The Kaintucks are boatmen
from the Ohio Valley.
Emily Davie: Generally what we now think of as
Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, those kind of areas.
Dennis Flake: And they're called "Kaintucks"
because a large percentage of them are from Kentucky.
So what they do to find a market,
is they build flatboats out of huge logs.
So these men go down the Ohio River using
the current, down the Mississippi River to Natchez and
New Orleans.
And the way these men get back home
to the Ohio Valley, is they walk.
Emily Davie: They would walk back up this trail.
This trail, this Natchez Trace was the way to get back home.
Between Natchez and Nashville, this was the most direct route.
So these Kaintucks had to trudge their way
up this,
basically 500-mile long trail to get home.
Dennis Flake: And by 1810, ten thousand boatmen a year are going up the
old Natchez Trace, and these men would have a significant amount of money.